doc: tfm: partitioning updates (#30109)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/security/tfm/tfm_building.rst

TF-M is one of the images that are built as part of a :ref:`multi-image application <ug_tfm_building_secure_services>`.

To build with TF-M, complete the following steps:

> 1. Select a :ref:`board target that is supported by TF-M <ug_tfm_building_board_targets>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the :ref:`NS board target of a device supported by TF-M <ug_tfm_building_board_targets>`.
```

Author: I should really just use the name of the section in singular, like in other places in the docs.

TF-M is one of the images that are built as part of a :ref:`multi-image application <ug_tfm_building_secure_services>`.

> Building with TF-M is handled using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BUILD_WITH_TFM` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: What do we want to say? If it's about instructing users to set this Kconfig option, this is plain wrong, we should get rid of any and all instances of this, all they should do is build for `*/ns`

To build with TF-M, complete the following steps:

1. Select a :ref:`board target that is supported by TF-M <ug_tfm_building_board_targets>`.
   The board files for these board targets have the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BUILD_WITH_TFM` Kconfig option enabled by default.

> #. Configure the TF-M build to use the configurable or minimal version.

Reviewer: Link to the minimal build too?

Author: It's there in the line 20.

   By default, TF-M is built with the :ref:`configurable version <tfm_configurable_build>` on most devices.
   The exceptions are :ref:`Thingy:91 <ug_thingy91>` and the :ref:`Thingy:91 X <ug_thingy91x>`, which default to the :ref:`minimal version <tfm_minimal_build>`.
1. If you are using custom devicetree partitions, make sure to update the devicetree files to reflect the custom memory region sizes.

> 1. Build your application using :ref:`standard building instructions <building>` for the development environment of your choice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Configure the TF-M build to use the configurable or minimal version.
   By default, TF-M is built with the :ref:`configurable version <tfm_configurable_build>` on most devices.
   The exceptions are :ref:`Thingy:91 <ug_thingy91>` and the :ref:`Thingy:91 X <ug_thingy91x>`, which default to the :ref:`minimal version <tfm_minimal_build>`.
#. If you are using custom devicetree partitions, make sure to update the devicetree files to reflect the custom memory region sizes.
#. Build your application using :ref:`standard building instructions <building>` for the development environment of your choice.
```

To configure the features of the TF-M secure image, you must choose which TF-M partitions and which secure services to include in the build.

.. note::
     A "TF-M partition" in this context refers to partitions specific to TF-M and located within the secure devicetree memory region (devicetree partition).
     These partitions are isolated from each other and from the non-secure application code.
     A service running inside TF-M would typically be implemented within one of these secure partitions.

     For more information about the relationship between TF-M partitions and devicetree memory regions, see :ref:`ug_tfm_partitioning`.

.. tfm_partitions_configuration_start

> Each service can be a separate TF-M partition, or multiple related services might be grouped into a single partition.

Reviewer 3: There is no option at the moment to group multiple partitions into a single partition. It is theoretically possible though, but it is not supported.  Up to you if you want to keep it or remove the statement all together.

     - With IPC, each Secure Partition processes signals in any order, and can defer responding to a message while continuing to process other signals.
     - Levels 1, 2 and 3

.. configuring_spm_backend_end

Configuring SPM logging
-----------------------

To control the number of logging messages, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SPM_LOG_LEVEL` Kconfig option.
To disable logging, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL_SILENCE` option.

.. _ug_tfm_building_secure_peripheral_gpio:

Configuring GPIO pin security for secure peripherals
====================================================

> On Nordic devices with the ``*/ns`` board target variant, the GPIO controller implements security by separation at the pin level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building on Nordic devices with TF-M, the GPIO controller implements security by separation at the pin level.
```
?

Author: "When building with TF-M", like the page title.

.. _ug_tfm_building_secure_peripheral_gpio:

Configuring GPIO pin security for secure peripherals
====================================================

On Nordic devices with :ref:`security by separation <ug_tfm_security_by_separation>`, the GPIO controller implements security by separation at the pin level.
Each pin on a GPIO port is marked either secure or non-secure.
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_GPIO0_PIN_MASK_SECURE`, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_GPIO1_PIN_MASK_SECURE`, and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_GPIO2_PIN_MASK_SECURE` Kconfig options set a bitmask that defines which pins on each port are secure.
These options default to ``0x00000000``, meaning every pin is non-secure unless you configure them explicitly.

.. caution::
   Marking a peripheral as secure (for example, with ``CONFIG_NRF_*_SECURE=y``) or assigning it in a partition manifest does not automatically mark its GPIO pins as secure.
   If a secure peripheral uses a pin that remains non-secure, the peripheral continues to operate, but the non-secure application can read the pin state and potentially snoop on secrets carried over that signal.

> If your secure peripheral uses GPIO pins, you must explicitly include those pins in the appropriate GPIO pin mask Kconfig option in your application's :file:`prj.conf` (for example, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_GPIO0_PIN_MASK_SECURE`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your secure peripheral uses GPIO pins, you must explicitly include those pins in the appropriate GPIO pin mask Kconfig option in your application's :file:`prj.conf` file (for example, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_GPIO0_PIN_MASK_SECURE`).
```

     - With IPC, each Secure Partition processes signals in any order, and can defer responding to a message while continuing to process other signals.
     - Levels 1, 2 and 3

.. configuring_spm_backend_end

Configuring SPM logging
-----------------------

To control the number of logging messages, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SPM_LOG_LEVEL` Kconfig option.
To disable logging, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL_SILENCE` option.

.. _ug_tfm_building_secure_peripheral_gpio:

Configuring GPIO pin security for secure peripherals
====================================================

> On Nordic devices with :ref:`security by separation <ug_tfm_security_by_separation>`, the GPIO controller implements security by separation at the pin level.

Reviewer: I know the use of this is widespread in the docs, but I'm not convinced "devices with security by separation" is a good term to use. It's too generic and vague. We're in the TF-M docs anyway. Why don't we instead say something like "Nordic devices built with TF-M"? much more clear and direct
